Your Audience
You, the domain specialist, have been engaged to build that architecture and present it to the customer’s domain
expert. You are presenting the validated proof-of-concept and final technical design to the customer’s domain
expert (Technical Stakeholder) and their VP of Strategy (Business Stakeholder). Your interviewer will ask
questions to represent both perspectives.
Your Presentation
We recommend your presentation to follow the layout and flow below. You are welcome to create a slide
presentation, screen share, or use another format to showcase your solution. Your presentation is intended to be
covered in 30 minutes with 10-15 minutes of Q&A regarding your presentation content. The mock customer
meeting should not exceed 45 minutes, including interactions and questions from the “customer”.
● Title & context: Introductions and setting the stage for the specific practice scenario.
● The specialized challenge: Clearly define the "unblocker." Why was an off-the-shelf solution
impossible?
● Technical deep-dive / live demonstration: Show the custom code, scripts, or novel architecture used
to resolve the challenge. Demonstrate your "hands-on" proficiency.
● Architectural decisions & trade-offs: Defend your design to the technical expert. Why this custom
approach over others?
● Business & strategic value: Translate the technical win into ROI or competitive advantage for the VP of
Strategy.
● Implementation & next steps: High-level roadmap for moving the prototype to production ramp.
Presentation Logistics
● Important: Be sure not to include confidential information in your presentation; including the name of
the customer example being used. Avoid using logos, screenshots or imagery that could breach
confidentiality. Please make the best decision based on your current workplace agreements.
● While our goal is to evaluate your ability to step into a Google Cloud CE role, this interview is not meant
to be an exhaustive demonstration of your mastery of Google's product features or naming conventions.
Please feel free to leverage your experience with other public cloud providers and products in the
market as part of your presentation.
● You’re welcome to use any presentation software (including but not limited to: Google Slides, PPT,
Adobe, Prezi, Keynote). Please note that certain software may take over your entire presentation
window. Be sure to practice presenting via Google Meet before your interview.
● Practice your presentation without your notes. You may use notes during your presentation, but know
that if you share your screen, the interviewers may be able to see them.
Best Practices
● Build your presentation with simplicity and intention. The panel will assess verbal communication and
presentation content and structure.
● We want this to be fun, not burdensome! The presentation should take no more than approximately four
hours to prepare.
● Anticipate and prepare for questions you might be asked during and after you finish.
● Practice! Your delivery should be conversational but professional. Let your Recruiter know if you have any
questions about your presentation format.